README.md, before:

# Headscale Dashboard

A modern, beautiful web dashboard for managing your Headscale VPN server.

## Features

- 🖥️ **Machine Management**: View, rename, move, expire, and delete machines
- 👥 **User Management**: Create, rename, and delete users
- 🛣️ **Route Management**: Enable, disable, and manage network routes
- 🔑 **API Keys**: Create and manage API keys for programmatic access
- 🔐 **PreAuth Keys**: Generate and manage pre-authentication keys
- 🛡️ **ACL Editor**: Configure Access Control Lists with a JSON editor
- 📊 **Dashboard**: Real-time overview of your network status
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Beautiful interface with dark mode support
- 🔔 **Toast Notifications**: User-friendly feedback for all actions
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates**: Auto-refresh every 30 seconds

## Project Status

⚠️ **Early Development Stage**

This project is currently in active development. While the core functionality has been implemented, comprehensive testing is still in progress. Some features may have bugs or unexpected behavior.

**We encourage you to:**
- 🐛 **Report bugs**: If you encounter any issues, please [open an issue](https://github.com/QuocDuong16/headscale-dashboard/issues) with detailed information
- 💡 **Suggest improvements**: Your feedback and suggestions are highly valued
- 🔍 **Test thoroughly**: Help us improve by testing different scenarios and reporting your findings

We are committed to making this dashboard more stable and feature-complete in the future. Your contributions and bug reports are essential for this project's success!

## Requirements

- Docker (for Docker deployment)
- A running Headscale server with API access
- Headscale API token (get it from your Headscale server)

## Installation

### Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run Headscale Dashboard is using Docker.

#### Quick Start

```bash
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com \
  --name headscale-dashboard \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
```

Replace:
- `https://your-headscale-server.com` with your actual Headscale API URL

#### Using Docker Compose

1. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  headscale-dashboard:
    image: ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
    container_name: headscale-dashboard
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com
      - NODE_ENV=production
    restart: unless-stopped
```

2. Run:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### TrueNAS Scale

1. Go to **Apps** → **Available Applications**
2. Click **Custom App**
3. Fill in the form:

   **Basic Configuration:**
   - Application Name: `headscale-dashboard`
   - Image Repository: `ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard`
   - Image Tag: `latest`
   - Container Port: `3000`
   - Protocol: `TCP`

   **Environment Variables:**
   - `HEADSCALE_API_URL`: Your Headscale API URL (e.g., `https://vpn.example.com`)
   - `NODE_ENV`: `production`

   **Networking:**
   - Port Forwarding:
     - Container Port: `3000`
     - Node Port: `3000` (or any available port)
     - Protocol: `TCP`

   **Health Check (optional):**
   - Enable: ✅
   - Type: `HTTP`
   - Path: `/api/health`
   - Port: `3000`

4. Click **Save** and wait for deployment

## Usage

1. **Access the Dashboard**: Open `http://your-server-ip:3000` in your browser

2. **Enter API Token**: 
   - On first load, you'll see a token input field in the header
   - Enter your Headscale API token
   - The token is stored in your browser's local storage

3. **Navigate**: 
   - Use the sidebar to access different sections:
     - **Dashboard**: Overview of your network
     - **Machines**: Manage connected devices
     - **Users**: Manage users
     - **Routes**: Manage network routes
     - **API Keys**: Manage API keys
     - **PreAuth Keys**: Generate pre-authentication keys
     - **ACLs**: Configure Access Control Lists

4. **Manage Resources**: 
   - Use action buttons to perform operations
   - Click on machines to view detailed information
   - Use modals to create or edit resources

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `HEADSCALE_API_URL` | Headscale API server URL | Yes | - |
| `NODE_ENV` | Node environment | No | `production` |
| `PORT` | Server port | No | `3000` |
| `HOSTNAME` | Server hostname | No | `0.0.0.0` |

### Getting Your Headscale API Token

1. SSH into your Headscale server
2. Run:
   ```bash
   headscale apikeys create -e 30d
   ```
3. Copy the generated API key
4. Use this key in the dashboard's token input field

## Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
- Check logs: `docker logs headscale-dashboard`
- Verify `HEADSCALE_API_URL` is correct and accessible
- Ensure port 3000 is not already in use

### Can't connect to Headscale API
- Verify `HEADSCALE_API_URL` is correct
- Check if your Headscale server is accessible from the container
- Ensure your Headscale server allows API connections
- Verify your API token is valid

### Dashboard shows errors
- Check browser console for errors
- Verify API token is correct
- Check network connectivity to Headscale server
- Review container logs for server-side errors

### Health check failing (TrueNAS)
- Verify `/api/health` endpoint is accessible
- Check container logs for errors
- Ensure port forwarding is configured correctly

## Updating

### Docker

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
docker stop headscale-dashboard
docker rm headscale-dashboard
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com \
  --name headscale-dashboard \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
```

### TrueNAS Scale

1. Go to the app in TrueNAS
2. Click **Upgrade**
3. Select the new image tag
4. Click **Upgrade**

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to:
- 🐛 Report bugs by opening an issue
- 💡 Suggest new features or improvements
- 🔧 Submit pull requests for bug fixes or enhancements
- 📝 Improve documentation

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

Commit message:

feat: update Docker configuration and documentation for custom port support
- Added optional port configuration in docker-compose.yml with comments for clarity.
- Updated README.md to include instructions for setting a custom PORT environment variable and adjusting port mappings accordingly.
- Enhanced metadata in layout.tsx to provide a title and description for the Headscale Dashboard.

README.md, after:

# Headscale Dashboard

A modern, beautiful web dashboard for managing your Headscale VPN server.

## Features

- 🖥️ **Machine Management**: View, rename, move, expire, and delete machines
- 👥 **User Management**: Create, rename, and delete users
- 🛣️ **Route Management**: Enable, disable, and manage network routes
- 🔑 **API Keys**: Create and manage API keys for programmatic access
- 🔐 **PreAuth Keys**: Generate and manage pre-authentication keys
- 🛡️ **ACL Editor**: Configure Access Control Lists with a JSON editor
- 📊 **Dashboard**: Real-time overview of your network status
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Beautiful interface with dark mode support
- 🔔 **Toast Notifications**: User-friendly feedback for all actions
- ⚡ **Real-time Updates**: Auto-refresh every 30 seconds

## Project Status

⚠️ **Early Development Stage**

This project is currently in active development. While the core functionality has been implemented, comprehensive testing is still in progress. Some features may have bugs or unexpected behavior.

**We encourage you to:**
- 🐛 **Report bugs**: If you encounter any issues, please [open an issue](https://github.com/QuocDuong16/headscale-dashboard/issues) with detailed information
- 💡 **Suggest improvements**: Your feedback and suggestions are highly valued
- 🔍 **Test thoroughly**: Help us improve by testing different scenarios and reporting your findings

We are committed to making this dashboard more stable and feature-complete in the future. Your contributions and bug reports are essential for this project's success!

## Requirements

- Docker (for Docker deployment)
- A running Headscale server with API access
- Headscale API token (get it from your Headscale server)

## Installation

### Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to run Headscale Dashboard is using Docker.

#### Quick Start

```bash
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com \
  --name headscale-dashboard \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
```

Replace:
- `https://your-headscale-server.com` with your actual Headscale API URL

**Note:** To use a different port, add `-e PORT=8080` and change the port mapping to `-p 8080:8080` (replace `8080` with your desired port).

#### Using Docker Compose

1. Create a `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  headscale-dashboard:
    image: ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
    container_name: headscale-dashboard
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com
      - NODE_ENV=production
      # Optional: Override default port (default is 3000)
      # - PORT=8080
    restart: unless-stopped
```

**Note:** If you change the `PORT` environment variable, make sure to update the port mapping (e.g., `"8080:8080"` if `PORT=8080`).

2. Run:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

### TrueNAS Scale

1. Go to **Apps** → **Available Applications**
2. Click **Custom App**
3. Fill in the form:

   **Basic Configuration:**
   - Application Name: `headscale-dashboard`
   - Image Repository: `ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard`
   - Image Tag: `latest`
   - Container Port: `3000`
   - Protocol: `TCP`

   **Environment Variables:**
   - `HEADSCALE_API_URL`: Your Headscale API URL (e.g., `https://vpn.example.com`)
   - `NODE_ENV`: `production`
   - `PORT`: (Optional) Server port inside container (default: `3000`)
     - If you set a custom PORT, make sure to update Container Port and Node Port below

   **Networking:**
   - Port Forwarding:
     - Container Port: `3000` (or match your `PORT` environment variable)
     - Node Port: `3000` (or any available port)
     - Protocol: `TCP`

   **Health Check (optional):**
   - Enable: ✅
   - Type: `HTTP`
   - Path: `/api/health`
   - Port: `3000`

4. Click **Save** and wait for deployment

## Usage

1. **Access the Dashboard**: Open `http://your-server-ip:3000` in your browser

2. **Enter API Token**: 
   - On first load, you'll see a token input field in the header
   - Enter your Headscale API token
   - The token is stored in your browser's local storage

3. **Navigate**: 
   - Use the sidebar to access different sections:
     - **Dashboard**: Overview of your network
     - **Machines**: Manage connected devices
     - **Users**: Manage users
     - **Routes**: Manage network routes
     - **API Keys**: Manage API keys
     - **PreAuth Keys**: Generate pre-authentication keys
     - **ACLs**: Configure Access Control Lists

4. **Manage Resources**: 
   - Use action buttons to perform operations
   - Click on machines to view detailed information
   - Use modals to create or edit resources

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description | Required | Default |
|----------|-------------|----------|---------|
| `HEADSCALE_API_URL` | Headscale API server URL | Yes | - |
| `NODE_ENV` | Node environment | No | `production` |
| `PORT` | Server port (runtime variable, can be overridden) | No | `3000` |
| `HOSTNAME` | Server hostname (runtime variable, can be overridden) | No | `0.0.0.0` |

**Important Notes:**
- `PORT` and `HOSTNAME` are **runtime environment variables** - they are read when the container starts, not at build time
- You can override these values when running the container (e.g., `-e PORT=8080`)
- If you change `PORT`, make sure to update the Docker port mapping accordingly (e.g., `-p 8080:8080`)
- This works with pre-built images (like those used in TrueNAS) - you can set `PORT` via environment variables in the container runtime

### Getting Your Headscale API Token

1. SSH into your Headscale server
2. Run:
   ```bash
   headscale apikeys create -e 30d
   ```
3. Copy the generated API key
4. Use this key in the dashboard's token input field

## Troubleshooting

### Container won't start
- Check logs: `docker logs headscale-dashboard`
- Verify `HEADSCALE_API_URL` is correct and accessible
- Ensure the port (default 3000) is not already in use
- If you set a custom `PORT`, verify the port mapping matches (e.g., if `PORT=8080`, use `-p 8080:8080`)

### Can't connect to Headscale API
- Verify `HEADSCALE_API_URL` is correct
- Check if your Headscale server is accessible from the container
- Ensure your Headscale server allows API connections
- Verify your API token is valid

### Dashboard shows errors
- Check browser console for errors
- Verify API token is correct
- Check network connectivity to Headscale server
- Review container logs for server-side errors

### Health check failing (TrueNAS)
- Verify `/api/health` endpoint is accessible
- Check container logs for errors
- Ensure port forwarding is configured correctly

## Updating

### Docker

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
docker stop headscale-dashboard
docker rm headscale-dashboard
docker run -d \
  -p 3000:3000 \
  -e HEADSCALE_API_URL=https://your-headscale-server.com \
  --name headscale-dashboard \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  ghcr.io/quocduong16/headscale-dashboard:latest
```

### TrueNAS Scale

1. Go to the app in TrueNAS
2. Click **Upgrade**
3. Select the new image tag
4. Click **Upgrade**

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to:
- 🐛 Report bugs by opening an issue
- 💡 Suggest new features or improvements
- 🔧 Submit pull requests for bug fixes or enhancements
- 📝 Improve documentation

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.
